# Naya_Final_project

The project based on ['https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/malekzadeh/motionsense-dataset']<br />
This dataset includes time-series data generated by accelerometer and gyroscope sensors (attitude, gravity, userAcceleration, and rotationRate). 
It is collected with an iPhone 6s kept in the participant's front pocket using SensingKit which collects information from Core Motion framework on iOS devices. A total of 24 participants in a range of gender, age, weight, and height performed 6 activities in 15 trials in the same environment and conditions: downstairs, upstairs, walking, jogging, sitting, and standing. With this dataset, we aim to look for personal attributes fingerprints in time-series of sensor data, i.e. attribute-specific patterns that can be used to infer gender or personality of the data subjects in addition to their activities.


## inputs: 
 - personal data (gender, age, weight, and height)
 - time-series sensors data (attitude, gravity, userAcceleration, and rotationRate) * 3 * 15 trials

### time-series with 12 features: 
 - attitude.roll, attitude.pitch, attitude.yaw,
 - gravity.x, gravity.y, gravity.z,
 - rotationRate.x, rotationRate.y, rotationRate.z,
 - userAcceleration.x, userAcceleration.y, userAcceleration.z.

### 15 trials:
 - Long trials: those with number 1 to 9 with around 2 to 3 minutes duration.
 - Short trials: those with number 11 to 16 that are around 30 seconds to 1 minutes duration.

## possible model outputs:
 - moving activities: dws: downstairs, ups: upstairs, sit: sitting, std: standing, wlk: walking, jog: jogging
 - gender - male, female

Classification task for 6 activities

## Open questions:
 - that expexted result error?
 - is data enough for classification model?
 - check for best model models for the task

optional - data optimization: reduce people and/or trials

feature management reduce features

create model with no optimization and get results. after this optimize data, reduse peple sensors trials and tryto get the same results

### Results for full data(all 1.4b rows)<br />
12 features total:<br />
attitude: roll, pitch, yaw<br />
gravity: x, y, z<br />
rotationRate: x, y, z<br />
userAcceleration: x, y, z<br />

features = ['attitude.roll','attitude.pitch','attitude.yaw','gravity.x','gravity.y','gravity.z','rotationRate.x','rotationRate.y','rotationRate.z','userAcceleration.x',
'userAcceleration.y','userAcceleration.z']<br />
target = ['activity'] 

```
Epoch 1/5 | Train Loss: 0.0602 | Val Loss: 0.0000 | Val Acc: 0.9087
Epoch 2/5 | Train Loss: 0.0093 | Val Loss: 0.0000 | Val Acc: 0.8963
Epoch 3/5 | Train Loss: 0.0051 | Val Loss: 0.0000 | Val Acc: 0.8726
Epoch 4/5 | Train Loss: 0.0033 | Val Loss: 0.0000 | Val Acc: 0.8863
Epoch 5/5 | Train Loss: 0.0025 | Val Loss: 0.0000 | Val Acc: 0.8971
Loss: 2.8400439987308346e-05
Running Loss: 44.33992810034397
```



